# demonstrate basic troubleshooting using ping,traceroute,ifconfig,nsloopup,netstat and route

ifconfig(interface configuration)
--------
Ifconfig is used to configure the kernel-resident network interfaces. It is used at boot time to set up interfaces as necessary. 
After that, it is usually only needed when debugging or when system tuning is needed. 
If no arguments are given, ifconfig displays the status of the currently active interfaces


ifconfig -a ---> display all interfaces which are currently avaialble
ifconfig -s ---> display a shortlist like netsat -i
ifconfig -v ---> be more verbose for some error condition


nslookup
--------
nslookup is a network administration command-line tool available for many computer operating systems. 
The main use of nslookup is for troubleshooting DNS related problems. 
Nslookup can be use in interactive and non-interactive mode.


ping
----
The Ping tool is used to test whether a particular host is reachable across an IP network.
A Ping measures the time it takes for packets to be sent from the local host to a destination computer and back. 
The Ping tool measures and records the round-trip time of the packet and any losses along the way.

ping <ip_addr>
ping -a ---> audible ping
ping -c ---> stop after sending count


netstat
-------
netstat shows all the network connections on an endpoint . by invoking netstat on the local machine ,all of the open ports and connection are shown . 
The ouput includes connections that are not completely established as well as connections that are being down


-a -all ---> show both listening and non-listening sockets , with the -interfaces options, show interfaces that are not up
-at     ---> to list all udp ports 
-l      ---> to list only listening ports
-c      ---> print netstat information continosly


route
-----
route command is used in linux to work with IP/kernel routing table . it mainly used to set up static routes to specific hosts or networks via an interfaces 

route ---> to display IP/kernel routing table

